# What is This?

This is my [Manager README](https://matthewnewkirk.com/2017/09/20/share-your-manager-readme/),
a document intended to:

1. Provide insight into how I view my job

1. Set expectations for how we will work together

1. Highlight some of my personal quirks, as to help improve our working
relationship

1. Serve as a both a reference and a promise for how I will conduct myself as a
manager

Please hold me accountable to my promises and call out anything that might be
missing from this document. Without your guidance, I will not improve as a
manager. Pull requests are welcome! 

# Why Write a README?

I first contemplated writing a README when the practice became popular amongst
people whom I respect. On the surface, I thought writing one was a good way to
introduce my philosophies, expectations, and idiosyncrasies in an expressive
medium that could be consumed asynchronously (as opposed to doing it via Slack
or expensive/disruptive meetings).

However, I worried the document would be pointless, go unread, or be perceived
as an act of hubris. Ultimately, I decided to write this document because I
value transparency, honesty, and direct communication over everything else.
Writing an open and honest README is a good way to live those values.

# Disclaimers

1. This document is **NOT** meant as replacement for actually getting to know
each other. We’ll spend our 1x1s getting to know each other better.

1. This document does not apply to anyone else in the company, and solely
reflects on my personal management style.

# My Job

As VP of IT at GPS Insight, I’m measured by:

1. Enabling rapid product development and aggressive growth while providing
clear tradeoffs to relevant stakeholders.


1. Our ability to recruit, build, and retain talent. We will lose some people
over time, but I will measure myself by asking you this question: _“Do you feel
that the team’s IQ, EQ, talent, and speed are getting better over time?”_ If the
answer is, _“HECK YES!”_, we’re on the right path.


1. Providing clear context so people not only understand their priority and
focus, but also the “Why” that is driving those priorities.


1. Iterating on processes and technology to build a scalable organization and a
scalable business.


1. Mentoring individual contributors and managers to increase our leadership
capacity.


1. Providing a constructive, engaging, and obstacle-free environment for the
above to combine to yield amazing results.

**I serve you, not the other way around; my job is to optimize for the people
around me.** I’m always available to assist. Ask me. You work for GPS Insight,
not for me nor for your direct manager. Optimize for GPS Insight.

# How I Approach My Job

My teams comes first. Obviously I have a responsibility to the company, but
without a well-staffed and highly-functioning team, I am unable to live up to
those responsibilities. Your success is ultimately the company’s success; I will
go out of my way to try to make you successful.

Our customers come next. I’m passionate about delivering exceptional business
value to customers and ensuring they have the best possible experience with our
product. If we take care of them, they will take care of us.

The company comes third. I continuously focus on scaling processes and
organizations so we can all continue to grow professionally as our customer base
expands.

# My Availability

Very few things are more important than talking to you if you want to talk to
me. If you need to talk, let’s talk. If you’ve heard a rumor, need clarification
on something, or are blocked, I’d love to hear as soon as possible.

Come by my desk, stop me in the hall, shoot me a Slack message; we don’t need to
wait until our next 1x1. I’m pretty good with a lot of context switches. This is
my job; please don’t assume I’m too busy.

Feel free to put something on my calendar; please don’t feel like you need to
ask first. If my calendar is full, please send me a message and I’ll see what I
can do to move things around for you.

# How I Expect You to Approach Your Job

1. I expect you to operate as a 
[Directly Responsible Individual](https://medium.com/@mmamet/directly-responsible-individuals-f5009f465da4). 

1. I expect you to be proactive, seeking knowledge and solutions. One of the
most valuable skills in engineering (and in life) is being a lifelong learner
and problem solver.

    However, this does **not** mean that I expect you to do or know everything
    on your own. I am here to provide guidance and mentorship: either through me
    or by finding the people you should be getting it from. This leads into...


1. I expect you to ask for help when you need it. If you need assistance, I’ll
go to the ends of the Earth, and back, to get it for you. 


1. I expect if you say, _“I’ve got this”_, and do not ask for help, you have it
totally under control and don’t need anything from me. I expect you will ask for
help if the situation changes.


1. I expect you to communicate early and often if you perceive risk or have bad
news about a deliverable. If there’s bad news, I expect you to deliver it as
early and accurately as possible. Don’t downplay it. This provides me with the
time and opportunity to try to deal with it, rather than getting stuck with an
unchangeable outcome.


1. I expect you to own up to mistakes; we're all human and mistakes happen.
Ownership and integrity are vastly more important than the perception of
infallibility.

# Your Development

Your career is yours; you set your goals and priorities. You know best how you
would like to grow and in what areas. I can provide feedback and outside
perspective. Please let me know how I can help you achieve them.

I’ll do my best to provide growth and learning opportunities; it will be up to
you to seize them. Let’s work together on this.

> No one hands you personal growth here; but it’s there for the taking. It’s
> being able to try hard things; that you might not succeed at every time. It’s
> seeing the practices of the talented people around you; practices you’re free
> to steal. Or it’s the advice that others will give to you; advice you didn’t
> always ask for but is usually a good idea to take.
>
> -- Steven H. Noble, Shopify

# 1x1s

1x1s are very important to me. They are primarily for you, and only secondarily
for me. You get to set the agenda to discuss anything and everything you want.
It’s not a status meeting, unless you want to talk about status. 

While I default to meeting in my office for 30 minutes each week, that doesn’t
always work best for everyone. If you don't like the frequency or location of
our 1x1s, please let me know; I am happy to adjust.

The same goes for choosing the timing that works best for you, including
anything I can do to prevent unnecessary context switching. If you want to skip
a 1x1, or cut one short, that’s completely fine.

# Feedback

I bias toward transparency, candor, and respect. All are required for us to be
successful in working together. 

## Feedback for You

I want to ensure that you are receiving honest and actionable feedback on a
consistent basis. I will provide you with opportunities for improvement and
guidance to the best of my ability, and will do my best to ensure that you
understand the feedback that I provide to you.

There should never be a scenario where a performance review is the first time
that you hear negative comments or opportunities for improvement. I will ensure
this is always given in a private setting.

## Feedback for Me

Feedback should go both ways. I am relying on you to let me know when I am doing
something detrimental to my position, our relationship, or the company. I am
making mistakes and want to improve, just like you.

If at any point you feel you have feedback to give to me, I will listen to and
internalize the feedback you provide. Hold me accountable. Tell me.

Disagreement is feedback and the sooner we learn how to efficiently disagree
with each other, the sooner we’ll trust and respect each other more. Ideas
don’t get better with agreement.

# Things You Should Know About Me

I have personality quirks. We all do. Here are some things I’m aware of which
may impact how we work together:

1. I can be hyperbolic, but it’s almost always because I am excited about the
topic. I also swear sometimes. Sorry.


1. I prefer direct and honest feedback, even it it’s blunt. I can sometimes miss
subtleties. If I do, please circle back with me in a more direct manner. It’s
not intentional.


1. I have an expressive face which can communicate things that aren’t
intentional or accurate. At times, it may appear I don’t like or agree with
something you said. However, it’s more likely that it caught me off guard, or
confused me, and I’m processing what you said.


1. I prefer context and time for contemplation before making significant
decisions. Unless something requires immediate action, I’m unlikely to make a
wide-reaching decision on the spur of the moment. To speed my decision-making
process, please provide the context of the request and all relevant information
in advance of when the decision needs to be made. This leads into...


1. I bias towards written proposals, preferring prose and well-documented
technical designs over PowerPoint, Slack, JIRA, etc. I prefer written proposals
for the same reasons Jeff Bezos [requires executives to write six-page narrative
memos](https://www.cnbc.com/2018/04/23/what-jeff-bezos-learned-from-requiring-6-page-memos-at-amazon.html)
and [banned PowerPoint from Amazon](https://slab.com/blog/jeff-bezos-writing-management-strategy/).
Six-page memos are not required, but the same thinking which fuels them is.